lover_invert2

C. DeTar 6/2/2007

Code for generating clover propagators and contracting "meson" and
baryon two point functions.  Propagators can be generated from any
time slice with several choices of sources.  Mesons can be constructed
from any pair of propagators.  Mesons are defined by the source and
sink gamma matrices.  Any pair of gamma matrices is allowed.  Fermilab
rotations are supported for point sinks.  Sink "relative" wave
functions are supported. Baryons are less general.  Baryons in the low
lying octet and decuplet can be constructed from any two quarks, but
the propagators are for only point source and sink.

Sample input parameter file

The file begins with the standard MILC stanza defining the lattice
dimensions.

  prompt 0
  nx 4
  ny 4
  nz 4
  nt 4
  
The gauge field options come next. (Parameter file comment lines are
optional and begin with "#".)
 
  # Gauge field description
  
  reload_serial ../binary_samples/lat.sample.l4444
  coulomb_gauge_fix
  forget

The code understands MILC, FNAL, NERSC, and SciDAC lattice file
formats.  Gauge fixing options are coulomb_gauge_fix and no_gauge_fix.
The "forget" indicates no output lattice file is to be written.  Some
other options are "save_serial" "save_serial_fm",
"save_serial_scidac", "save_partition_scidac", "save_parallel_scidac"
followed by the file name, as in
  
                save_serial lat.file

The next stanza specifies the stopping conditions for the inverter.

  # Inversion control
  
  max_cg_iterations 100          # Number of iterations before forcing restart
  max_cg_restarts 10             # Max number of restarts
  error_for_propagator 1e-6      # Absolute error
  rel_error_for_propagator 1e-6  # FNAL relative error

The absolute error refers to the ratio of the L2 residual norm and the
L2 source norm.  The relative error refers to the FNAL definition.
When both are nonzero, both conditions must be satisfied for
convergence.  Setting one of them to zero suppresses that condition.
  
The next series of stanzas specifies the quarks involved in the mesons.

  # Description of quarks
  
  number_of_quarks 2
  
  # quark 0

Parameters for the first quark

  kappa 0.1
  clov_c 1.2    # In MILC convention the clover coeff is clov_c/u0^3
  u0 1.0

The next line specifies whether the code should read the propagator
file with or without checking it against the gauge field and source.

  check yes

Choices are "yes" and "no".
  
Propagator files for this quark

  fresh_wprop
  save_serial_fm_sc_wprop prop.test1

The code recognizes both FNAL formats and the MILC propagator formats.
The line "fresh_wprop" starts from a zero guess.  To read a propagator
file, use

           reload_serial_wprop filename

For the archival FNAL format, use save_serial_fm_wprop.  Eventually,
we will support save_serial_scidac_wprop and
save_partfile_scidac_wprop.  Currently those commands generate a
nonstandard SciDAC format.
  
The next stanza specifies the source for the first quark.

  # source 
  
  gaussian
  origin 0 0 0 0     # x y z t
  r0 1.5             # exp[-(r/r0)^2]

Options here are "point", "covariant_gaussian", "complex_field", and
"dirac_field".  Each has its own stanza format.  Here are examples of
each

              point
              origin 0 0 0 0

              complex_field  (or dirac_field)
              t0 0       # time slice
              load_source  sourcefile

              covariant_gaussian
              origin 0 0 0 0
              r0 1.5
              source_iters 10

FNAL rotation parameter for this quark

  # d1

  d1 0.1

Do the same for the remaining quarks.
  
  # quark 1
  
  kappa 0.1
  clov_c 1.2
  u0 1.0
  check yes
  
  fresh_wprop
  save_serial_fm_sc_wprop prop.test2
  
  # source
  
  gaussian
  origin 0 0 0 0
  r0 1.5

  # d1
 
  d1 0.1

The next stanzas describe the two-point functions to be computed.
First we specify which pairings of quarks are needed.
  
  # Description of mesons
  
  number_of_pairings 2
  
  # pair 1
  
  pair 0 0

Count quarks from 0.  This line specifies that we want to combine the
first quark mentioned above with itself (as an antiquark in the meson)
or to combine three of the first quark as a baryon.
  
The next line specifies the hadron propagators to be constructed.

  spectrum_request point,3drotated,baryon

This is a comma-separated list with NO spaces.  Choices are "point"
for mesons with a point sink, "rotated" for mesons with a point
rotated sink, "smeared" for a specified sink meson wave function,
"baryon" for baryon propagators.

When a "3drotated" correlator is requested, the next line should
specify the rotation parameter "d1" as follows:

d1 0.1

We repeat for each desired pairing of quarks.
  
  # pair 2
  
  pair 0 1
  
  spectrum_request point,smeared

When a "smeared" meson is specified, the code expects a sink
description to follow.  Please note that sink smearing means
introducing a wave function in the relative coordinate of the quark
and antiquark.  This code does do not currently support the other type
of smearing in which the quark and antiquark propagators are
separately smeared, but if that is required, it is easy to add it to
the code.

  # sink
  
  gaussian
  origin 0 0 0
  r0 1.5
  wave_func_label gaussian1.5    # label identifying the sink

The sink specification is nearly the same as the source, except there
are more limited options and we also require a label to identify the
sinnk.  The covariant gaussian and Dirac wave functions didn't seem to
make sense, so they were dropped.  Since the specification applies to
all time slices, the time coordinate is not given.

The next stanza specifies the source and sink gamma matrices to be
applied in the meson contraction.  It also gives a label to each meson
and specifies a phase factor to multiply the correlator.
  
  # Meson labels, gamma matrices and correlator phase factor
  
  number_of_mesons 17
  
  meson_source_sink PION G5 G5     1
  meson_source_sink PS505 G5T G5   1
  meson_source_sink PS0505 G5T G5T -1
  meson_source_sink RHO GX GX      1
  meson_source_sink RHO GY GY      1
  meson_source_sink RHO GZ GZ      1
  meson_source_sink RHO0 GXT GXT	 1
  meson_source_sink RHO0 GYT GYT	 1
  meson_source_sink RHO0 GZT GZT	 1
  meson_source_sink SCALAR G1 G1   1
  meson_source_sink SCAL0 GT GT    1
  meson_source_sink PV G5X G5X   	 1
  meson_source_sink PV G5Y G5Y   	 1
  meson_source_sink PV G5Z G5Z   	 1
  meson_source_sink B GXY GXY      -1
  meson_source_sink B GYZ GYZ      -1
  meson_source_sink B GZX GZX      -1

In each line the first field is the meson label, the second two
specify the source and sink gamma matrices and the last specifies the
phase.  When a label is repeated, as we did in four cases, the
correlators are averaged.  The gamma matrix notation is
straightforward.  The 16 choices are

   GX, GY, GZ, GT, G5, GYZ, GZX, GXY, GXT, GYT, GZT,  G5X, G5Y, G5Z, G5T, G1

where G1 is the identity.

The phase factor is limited to "1", "i", "-1", "-i".

The final stanza specifies the meson momentum labels and components.
  
  # Meson momenta
  
  number_of_meson_momenta 4
  
  momentum p000 0 0 0     # kx ky kz
  momentum p100 1 0 0
  momentum p100 0 1 0
  momentum p100 0 0 1
  
